# Cluster QA

**This part of the QA must be run for any calorimeter related analysis (for EMCal/PHOS/DCal and hybrid analyses PCM-EMCal, PCM-PHOS, PCM-DCal)**

    For your desired dataset or MC sample run the GammaCalo & GammaConvCalo task on Grid. Important: one of both tasks need to be run with QA level, for example '5' to enable full QA output including cell QA (remember to request 'runwise' output and always run in 'slow' mode to get maximum statistics)
    Download runwise + periodwise (merged) output from Grid (two different sets of DL macros available in DownloadAndDataPrep/* and TaskQA/Grid_CopyFiles*.C)
    Run QA_RunwiseV2.C with doEventQA = kTRUE and doClusterQA = kTRUE (doMergedQA for EMCal merged analysis) with doExtQA == 2! (important for cell level output) using data + MC input in order to
    CellQA step: identify dead and warm/hot cells comparing data and MC information. Check histograms created in 'ExtQA/*' and especially 'ExtQA/MissingCells/*' for dead cells. Dead/warm/hot cell identification by comparing the cells EFrac to mean EFrac of neighboring cells (EFrac = cells energy fraction of full cluster energy, summed over all events -> turned out to be a much better discriminator than just looking how often cells fired)
        dead cell candidate if((nCurrentEFrac<mean/3 && mean>=80) || (nCurrentEFrac<mean/5 && mean>=40 && mean<80) || (nCurrentEFrac<mean/8 && mean>=10 && mean<40) || (nCurrentEFrac<mean/10 && mean<10))
        warm/hot cell candidate if((nCurrentEFrac>2*mean && nCurrentEFrac>80) || (nCurrentEFrac>3*mean && nCurrentEFrac>20) || (nCurrentEFrac>4*mean && nCurrentEFrac>8) || (nCurrentEFrac>5*mean && nCurrentEFrac>5))
        Above conditions for dead/warm/hot cell candidate identification are being applied in function 'CheckHotAndColdCellsEFracRunwise' in QA.h! Resulting dead/warm/hot cells are written to respective log files that can be found in the output folder. Next steps 4.1/4.2 are needed as by statistical fluctuations some cells can fire more often or less often than usual, therefore need to apply further conditions for dead/hot cell identification:
        Run ClusterQA_DeadCellCompare.C (needs to be configured within macro). Determination of dead cells using for-loop around line 280. Different decisions when to consider dead cells (if cell is dead cell candidate in consecutive number of runs (currently set up with 4), if at least 10 dead cell candidates are found with in the same run range or cell candidate is identified to be dead in a given % of analysed runs, represented by fractionThesh.
        Run ClusterQA_HotCellCompare.C (needs to be configured within macro). Determination of warm/hot cells using for-loop around line 180 via 'threshNFired' and 'threshNTotalFired' for 4.a) and 4.b) produce output log-files which summarize the bad cells to be excluded in OADB from runwise dead/warm/hot cell determination. 
    After identifying dead/hot cells on runwise level, the general periodwise level CellQA + ClusterQA step follows
    CellQA step on periodwise level via running of ClusterQA.C: identify bad cells on periodwise level by using data and MC information. Setting for bad cell identification are defined in QAV2.C (Double_t arrQAEnergy[4]; Double_t arrQATime[4]; Double_t arrQAHotCells1D[4]; Double_t arrmin2D[9]; Double_t arrmax2D[9];)
        Compare data/MC energy and time distributions for all bad cell candidates found in 6) Also use 9) - then, merge bad cell candidate list from 6) with lists found in 4.a) and 4.b) to be excluded in OADB 
    Runwise ClusterQA step by analysing output from ClusterQA_Runwise.C: Carefully check all output from runwise histograms with special focus on data/MC comparison (Is the MC able to reproduce all QA histograms extracted from data? Does the MC follow the trends seen in data? Are there any suspicious runs or any observations that cannot be explained?...)
    ClusterQA step by analysing output from ClusterQA.C: Carefully check all output from histograms with special focus on data/MC comparison (Is the MC able to reproduce all QA histograms extracted from data? Does the MC follow the distributions seen in data? Are there any suspicious observations or is there anything that cannot be explained?...)
    Run ClusterQA_CellCompare to visualize bad cell candidates found in step 6)
    Optional: ClusterQA_Compare to compare different data sets (MB vs calorimeter trigger for example for a given dataset; needs input from runwiseQA and periodwiseQA) 
